.TH UBERTOOTH\-DFU 1 "March 2017" "Project Ubertooth" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
.BR ubertooth-dfu (1) 
\- Device firmware update for Ubertooth
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
To update firmware, run:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ubertooth\-dfu \-d bluetooth_rxtx.dfu \-r
.fi
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ubertooth-dfu (1) 
is a utility for updating firmware on Ubertooth. It can
also download the currently running firmware from the device.
.PP
Running the upload or download command automatically resets the device
into the firmware update bootloader. The USB ID of the Ubertooth will
change in the bootloader, and this may cause problems when attempting to
update firmware from inside a VM.
.PP
In the DFU bootloader, the TX, RX, and USR LEDs will turn on and off in
sequence. If this does not occur, you can try to manually force the
device to boot into the bootloader. Refer to [MANUALLY ENTERING
BOOTLOADER][].
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Major modes:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-d <firmware.dfu>\fR :
Download \- write DFU file to device
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-u <output.dfu>\fR :
Upload \- read DFU file from device
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-r\fR :
Reset device after performing operation
.RE
.PP
Miscellaneous:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-s <file.bin>\fR :
Add DFU suffix to binary firmware file
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-U <0\-7>\fR :
Which Ubertooth device to use
.RE
.SH MANUALLY ENTERING BOOTLOADER
.PP
If the device does not enter the bootloader when running the upload or
download commands, it is possible to force the device to boot into that
mode when it is inserted. To do so, you will need to jumper two pins on
the expansion header.
.PP
The expansion header is a 2x3 pin header between the two largest chips
on the board, about halfway between the USB connector and antenna. It is
labeled "EXPAND" on the back side of the board. Holding the board so USB
is pointed up, on the front side of the board the expansion header looks
like this:
.PP
.RS
.nf
  +\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
6 + O | O | 3
  +\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
5 + O | O | 2
  +\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
4 + O | X | 1
  +\-\-\-+\-\-\-+
.fi
.RE
.PP
PIN #1, marked X, is square.
.PP
With Ubertooth unplugged, use a piece of wire, paperclip, staple, etc to
connect pins 1 and 2 together. When it it plugged in, the Ubertooth
should enter bootloader mode (LEDs will be turning on and off in
sequence).
.PP
The bootloader will exit after 5 seconds of no activity and boot into
the main firmware.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ubertooth (7): 
overview of Project Ubertooth
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Mike Ryan.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
.BR ubertooth-dfu (1) 
is Copyright (c) 2010\-2017. This tool is released under
the GPLv2. Refer to \fB\fCCOPYING\fR for further details.
