.TH UBERTOOTH\-AFH 1 "March 2017" "Project Ubertooth" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
.BR ubertooth-afh (1) 
\- passive detection of AFH channel map
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS
.nf
ubertooth\-afh \-u <uap> \-l <lap> [\-r] [\-m <seconds>]
.fi
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Classic Bluetooth piconets commonly make use of Adaptive Frequency
Hopping (AFH) to avoid interference with other signals in 2.4 GHz. This
tool attempts to determine the AFH map being used for a given piconet
identified by UAP and LAP.
.PP
At a minimum you must provide UAP and LAP. See 
.BR ubertooth-rx (1) 
for a
method for sniffing these over the air and details on where else to find
them. By default the tool will only print the AFH map when it is
updated. By providing the \fB\fC\-r\fR flag, the AFH map will be printed out in
binary form once per second.
.SH OPTIONS
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-l <LAP>\fR :
LAP of target piconet (3 bytes / 6 hex digits)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-u <UAP>\fR :
UAP of target piconet (1 byte / 2 hex digits)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-m <int>\fR :
threshold for channel removal (default: 5)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-r\fR :
print AFH channel map once every second (default: print on update)
.RE
.PP
Other options:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-t <seconds>\fR :
timeout for initial AFH map detection (not required)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-e <0\-4>\fR :
maximum access code errors (default: 2, range: 0\-4)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-V\fR :
print version information
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-U <0\-7>\fR :
set ubertooth device to use
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ubertooth-rx (1): 
a tool for finding UAP and LAP
.PP
.BR ubertooth (7): 
overview of Project Ubertooth
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Mike Ryan.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
.BR ubertooth-afh (1) 
is Copyright (c) 2015\-2017. This tool is released under the
GPLv2. Refer to \fB\fCCOPYING\fR for further details.
