.TH UBERTOOTH\-SPECAN 1 "March 2017" "Project Ubertooth" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
ubertooth\-specan(1) \- a spectrum analyzer for Ubertooth

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
ubertooth\-specan [\-l <freq>] [\-u <freq>] [\-g|G]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
ubertooth\-specan(1) is a tool for using Ubertooth as a spectrum analyzer
in the 2.4GHz band. It is often used as a helper for GUI tools, such as
ubertooth\-specan\-ui or Spectools. It can also produce output suitable for
user with the feedgnuplot tool.

.PP
Other options allow upper and lower bounds to be set on the frequencies
monitored. Refer to the [OPTIONS][] section for full details.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options:
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-l\fR :
lower frequency (default 2402)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-u\fR :
upper frequency (default 2480)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-g\fR :
format output for feedgnuplot
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-G\fR :
format output for 3D feedgnuplot
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-d<filename>\fR :
output to file <filename>
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-v\fR :
print verbose output to stderr
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-U<0\-7>\fR :
set ubertooth device to use

.PP
##EXAMPLES

.PP
To monitor the 2.4GHz band and produce a file suitable for feedgnuplot:

.PP
ubertooth\-specan \-g \-d output.dat

.PP
To monitor the upper half of the 2.4GHz band, use:

.PP
ubertooth\-specan \-l 2440

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
ubertooth(7): overview of Project Ubertooth

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Dominic Spill.

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
ubertooth\-specan(1) is Copyright (c) 2010\-2017. This tool is released under the
GPLv2. Refer to \fB\fCCOPYING\fR for further details.
